(1)

(2)

২৩৫

অংশ খ ঃ [বিধি ১১২ ৮৮) দ্রঃ]

অংশ কঃ General Considerations for the Employment of Consultants

Appointment of Consultants, local or international, at times is a crucial element in the project
cycle. Depending on the nature of a project, combination of both local and International
Consultants in implementing any project or activity can be more useful and effective. A
project may not be ready for financing without Consultant’s Services. An aid agreement may
not be effective till a Consultant is in place. A tender document may not be issued or even
prepared without a Consultant. A system may not be introduced or reformed without the
Services of Consultant. At the conceptual or project preparation stage it is to be thoroughly
scrutinized to identify the areas where the Services of the Consultant is necessary if the
technology involved is complex and not locally available and the concerned agency has no
experience. Therefore, where it is considered expedient that the service of a Consultant is
required, appointment of local or International Consultants should be considered. However,
the Procuring Entities should be selective in appointment of Consultants. International
Consultants may be appointed when local expertise is not available. While using
International Consultants arrangements should be made to ensure a mechanism for transfer
of technology or expertise. Human resources development should form an integral part of
any technical assistance programme.

Consultants are generally appointed for the following purposes:

(a) Pre-investment_ Studies: These comprise the investigations that normally precede
decisions to go forward with specific projects. These studies determine the investment
needs and the type of interventions needed to attain the desired goal. These include
identification of priority area of investment, need for policy adjustment, feasibility
studies for project or programme, improvement of existing management practices etc.

(b) Preparation Services: These comprise the technical, economic or other assignment
required to fully define a project and prepare it for implementation. These Services
normally include the preparation of a project, collection of relevant Documents,
information and data, setting objectives, identifying activities for attaining objectives,
requirement of physical and financial resources, preparation of Procurement
Documents.

(c) Implementation Services: These relate to actual implementation of the activities using
resources already identified during preparation phase. Implementation shall follow the
time chart already worked out and revised from time to time. Implementation may be
of the nature of construction of a complex road, building or a bridge, procurement and
installation of goods and equipment. It may be of the nature of reforming a system in
order to improve efficiency and ensure better performance. This involves supervision,
management, inspection and providing necessary technical Services.

(d) Technical Assistance: These comprise a wide range of intellectual and professional
Services along with other support service, such as development and sector planning
and institution building, including organization and management (O&M) studies,
staffing requirement and training needs and assistance in the implementation of, study
recommendations. ;
