(14)

(15)
(16)

(17)

(18)

(19)

(20)

(21)

(22)

(23)

(24)

(25)

(26)

(27)

২১৯

Immediately after tear-opening the Tenders, put TSN chronologically on the
document duly encircled by red-ink as earlier done in Step (8) above ;

Read-aloud the tender prices quoted by the Tenderer ;

Discounts offered by any tenderer in accordance with the Tender Document
shall be read out and recorded under ‘remarks’ in Col. 7 of the TOS ;

Check the requisite documents, requirements etc., and the Tender Security, in
particular. Write the amount of Tender Security in column-3 of the Tender
Opening Sheet (TOS).

Put the TSN on the Tender Security (Bank Guarantee/Pay Order/Bank Draft)
with red-ink duly encircled and initialled by the Chairperson of the Tender
Opening Committee (TOC).

Record the missing documents or any incompleteness and major or minor
deviations in the appropriate location/pages of the Tender Document as a
whole ;

It there is no correction in a particular page, write comment at the bottom of
that page that “no correction in this page” or so, as appropriate ;

If there is any correction or overwriting in a particular page and duly initialled
by the tenderer, encircle and initial that particular correction with red-ink. If
there is more than one such correction and initial by the tenderer, repeat the
procedures. And at the bottom of that particular page write comment that “one
correction in this page with initial”, “two corrections in this page with initials”
and so on, as appropriate ;

If there is correction in a particular page but not duly initialled by the tenderer,
encircle and initial that particular correction with red-ink. And at the bottom of
that Particular page write comment that “one correction in this page without
initial” “two corrections in this page without initial” and so on, as appropriate ;

All red-ink encircled figures and words of the corresponding items and rates
must be initialled by the Chairperson and other members of the TOC ;

If there is any item in the Bill of Quantities against which the tenderer has not
quoted any rate and/or amount i.e. kept blank, put question mark in that blank
space and at the bottom of the page write comment that “No rate and/or
amount quoted for item no ........... in this page”;

Obtain signature of the Tenderers and/or their authorized representatives in
the TOS;

Make sure after opening of the Tenders that all the members and the
Chairperson of the TOC including the Tenderers or their authorized
representatives who attended the Tender Opening have signed the TOS;

TOS must be faxed or mailed or sent out to the appropriate authority
immediately upon completion of Tender Opening.
