(3)

(4)

২৩৬

Technical Assistance Projects have a clearly stated policy to build local capacity in
course of execution of the projects. The objective is to facilitate transfer of knowledge
and technology through the interaction between international and Local Consultants
during the implementation of the project.

For each position created in consulting service appropriate attention should be made
to compatible international/ local positions. International Consultants can be of any
national of eligible countries including Bangladesh.

Association of Consultants with International & Local Consulting Firms:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

For development projects implemented in Bangladesh by the GOB with the support of
development partners, may require the engagement of international consulting firms.
Each international consulting firm is encouraged to seek participation and obtain full
range of expertise by associating with local consulting firm(s) or entities in a joint
venture or sub-consultancy, as appropriate.

International consulting firms may include national Consultants in their payroll and
are entitled to apply their Fees/Charges for the Local Consultants provided they are
recruited as their team.

The local consulting firms will have Local Consultants in their payroll and are entitled
to apply their Fees/Charges on the Local Consultants working for them.

If a Bangladeshi firm is short-listed to compete with international firms, it may use the
Services of both international and local Consultants and is entitled to apply
Fees/Charges for both categories of Consultants,

In a joint participation of international and local consulting firms member firms will
mutually decide the payroll arrangements.

Billing Rates and Modus Operandi:

 

 

 

 

 

(1) _ Billing rates shall be calculated on staff-month basis. The billing rates of consulting
firms usually consist of staff remuneration, social charges, overhead charges, and the
Consultant’s fee.

(2) The billing rate will vary depending on the nature of the consulting firm. As
guidance, an example of typical billing rate calculation is provided below:

Item Component International/ National Firm
] Staff Remuneration
2; Social Charges 40% of Remuneration
3 Overhead 60—100% of Remuneration
4 Consultant’s Fee 10—15% of (1+2+3)

 

 

 

 

 
