(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

২২৯

তফসিল ৮
অংশ-ক 3 [বিধি ৪৩ (8) দ্রঃ]

Records of Procurement to be Maintained by a Procuring Entity

The records of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services made through each contract
shall be maintained separately.

In case of more than one contract falling under a particular package, the files or records shall
be systematically maintained on each contract basis and arranged or grouped together on the
basis of each package. For example, if one package of goods consists of 3 lots and for each
lot a separate contract has been concluded, then there should be three files for 3 contracts
and papers relating to each contract shall be maintained in the relevant contract files. A!l the
three contract files relating to the particular package shall be maintained together as a group
or package. If in a goods package, say Package No. 01 there are 3 contracts then the contract
files shall indicate as G1: Contract -1 (3), G1: Contract 2 (3), 01: Contract 3 (3). All the 3
contracts shall be serially maintained under one package. The file number may include ---/---
-/Procurement/ G1: Cont-1 (3)/2004-06. The indicated years are the file opening and closing
years.

The file should be opened indicating the year when it is opened and the year when it should
be closed. In other words it should include year of commencement and year of completion of
contractual obligations.

A particular Contract file may have more than one Part file. Part file shall be indicated in the
file number as Part-1, Part-2 say for example: ----- [------- /G1: Cont.1 (3) Part- 1/2004 -06.

The checklist of records format shall be placed at the top of every file whether it is a part file
or not. The format of the checklist should be filled in stating the records maintained in a
particular file. Where part file is opened, some of the columns of the checklist of records will
remain blank concerning the records not maintained in a particular part file.

The concerned officer of the Procuring Entity should indicate in writing in the format in
which part file or main file the records appearing blank are available.

If relevant papers relating to a particular Procurement are maintained by more than one
branch of the Procuring Entity, the relevant branch shali transfer the records to the main
Procurement file.

If it is not possible to transfer the records and documents, the concerned department(s) shall
maintain the documents/records relating to the Procurement for the period stated in the
Regulations and the Procedures. The concerned Procurement Officer shall ensure the
relevant branch is complying with the requirement and the Procedures of the Regulation 9.
This situation may arise in case of documents/records maintained by the Accounts Branch
who may retain the original documents for audit or other purposes.

The pages of the file shall be numbered serially. The entire file should be preserved in a
manner so that no page should miss, The pages in the file should be bounded if possible.
