10.

lg

12.

13.

14,

২৫৯

(6) A Person shall not encourage a public servant, or a member of his family, to engage in
any trade in the area over which such public servant has jurisdiction, nor to undertake any

employment of work, other than his official duties.

Communication of official documents or information.—(1) Save as provided otherwise in
this Code, a Person shall not disclose directly or indirectly to any other Person, or any public
servant, or a private individual, or to the press, other than those to whom he is authorised to
communicate it, the contents of any document or information which has been entrusted in
confidence to him by a public servant, or to which he had access owing to his involvement in
the procurement proceedings or the content of the document.

(2) A Person shall disclose the contents of any official document or communicate any
information which has come into his possession to another official only if so provided for, or
as may be reasonably expected, during the performance of the procurement proceedings or
contract in force at that time.

Conflict of Interest—A Person finding a personal interest arising such that it may affect his
impartiality in any matter relevant to his obligations at the point in time should consider this
as a conflict of interest and shall therefore declare this personal interest immediately upon
being aware of such interest to the public servant with whom he is dealing at that time.

(2) A conflict of interest may also be considered to exist if a Person is in any way closely
related to, either as a friend or a relation or has a financial investment in a business with any
public servant with whom he is dealing at that time.

Obligations of a Person. — A Person has an obligation to a Procuring Entity that in
performing his obligations under any procurement activity or contract, he will comply with
the Act, Rules, or other documents published by the Competent Authority.

(2) No Person shall indulge in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices, the nature
of which is defined in Rule 127.

Contravention of this Code. — Contravention of this Code shall be construed as
misconduct and may result in that Person being debarred from partaking in any future public
procurement either indefinitely or for any period of time as determined by a Procuring
Entity.

Decisions and advice. — Should a Person be unclear as to what is and what is not
acceptable he should seek advice from the Head of the Procuring Entity, or as appropriate,
the Competent Authority.

This Code not to be in derogation of any law etc. — Nothing in this Code shall derogate
from the provisions of any law, or of any order of any competent authority, for the time
being in force, relating to the conduct of a Person.
