২৫৮

(৭) enhancing the proficiency and reputation of public procurement by acquiring and
maintaining current technical knowledge, following best procurement practices and

establishing the highest standard of ethical behaviour;

(e) optimising the use of resources under their control and supervision to provide the

minimum benefit to the Procuring Entity and the nation.

(2) A Person shall not allow himself to be deflected from the principles mentioned in this
Code.

Gifts — (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Code, no Person shal! offer to any public
servant, or any member of his family, any gift the receipt of which will place him under any

form of official obligation to the donor of the gift.

(2). A Person may give to a public servant a gift of small intrinsic value such as business
diaries, calendars, key rings or a ballpoint with the Person's company symbol provided that
the value of such individual item does not exceed Tk. 500/-.

Hospitality. — (1) A Person shall not influence or put a public servant under any obligation
by offering hospitality to influence the making of a procurement decision by that public
servant as a consequence of accepting hospitality from a Person or any other private
individual. .

(2)-A Person shall not encourage any meetings or entertainment to-be held, the main purpose

of:which shall be to honour or praise a public.servant.

Unacceptable activities—{1) The following activities shall be considered unacceptable

activities under this Code:

(2) A Person shall not offer to or secure for, or promise to secure for a public servant any

foreign award, title or decoration.

(3) A Person shall not approach any public servant to secure for that public servant an
invitation to visit a foreign country: or for training abroad, unless such training has been

formally approved in any procurement document or aid agreement.

(AVA Person shall not lend money to, or borrow money from, or place himself under any

pecuniary obligations to any public servant with whom he has any procurement dealings.

(5) A Person shall not encourage a public servant.to construct a building whether intended to
be used for residential or commercial purpose, nor encourage a public servant in the buying
or selling of valuable property, moveable and immovable, nor encourage a public servant to

speculate in investments.
